---
title: Manifesto of a Fat Person
date: 2016-08-09T17:26:03.000Z
image: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/aim4strength/image/upload/v1514574378/manifesto-of-a-fat-person.jpg
categories:
  - Exercise
  - Food and Diet
  - Julie's Story
  - Opinion
  - Weightloss
  - Weightloss Setbacks
---
Well, I know a thing or two about being fat. I was 300lbs for, I don’t know, too long to count. This manifesto is a manifesto that is going to change the way we not only view fat people (I know, not politically correct verbiage, but I am pretty politically incorrect, so its ok), but how we help them to discover their awesome, badass-selves. Rule number one: Don’t stare, don’t make fun of, and don’t ostracize the fat person. It isn’t fun to be fat, and being singled out sucks. It’s almost as if fat people are viewed as someone with leprosy. Let me tell you, if a fat person bumps in to you, you can’t “catch” their fatness. I promise. Rule number two: Don’t automatically think fat people are funny. I know, seems acceptable that they should be jolly—I mean, look at Santa, right? It’s like telling a monkey, “dance monkey, dance”. It is annoying that I felt I had to be “on” in order to be heard and not be invisible. Rule number three: Fat people (contrary to popular beliefs of skinny people) don’t revel in their fat—or at least they shouldn’t. I found it offensive that so many people said “well, if you aren’t happy being fat…” Um, last I checked, no one is ever overjoyed looking in a mirror and seeing something they don’t like. It depresses them, and I, as a former fat girl ate when I was depressed. Which compounds the problem.

So how do we combat fat? How do we become that which we are told we are supposed to become? Well, I have a stellar idea. Don’t. Don’t be something or someone you’re not. Be you. Concentrate on something else, for God sakes, other than being fat, or trying so hard to be skinny, or seeing a bulge here or there. Guess what—there are REAL problems in the world, and being so self-involved does nothing but make you feel awful. So, when you look in the mirror and see something you don’t like— don’t eat, don’t chastise yourself and don’t belittle yourself with negative self-talk. Say three nice things about yourself. But then what do you do? You try to be the best PERSON you can be, because fatness does not define you.

It’s funny, we all want individuality, but always strive to be skinny like Sally Sue. because skinny is socially acceptable, and being fat is not. Now, before you get your panties in a wad, I don’t think it is good to be fat. I don’t think it’s a “statement.” I think it’s just an outward flaw instead of an inward flaw. Everyone has hang-ups. Fat people wear their hang-ups like a badge, while someone of “normal” proportions wears them on the inside, where no one can see them. While I think we all should strive for individuality, I still think we can do that while being healthier and more mobile. I love that God loves all shapes and sizes, and I think we can still be accepting and hold onto our individuality, and still be in a better place with our health.

Exercise: Yes, it hurts when your fat. And by the way, it sucks ass and that is why most fat people aren’t super gung ho about the gym. Knee swelling, sweating profusely, and breathing like a hairy monster doesn’t make most people LOVE exercise, let alone fat people. Oh, and by the way—The TV shows that have you lose 100 lbs in a week doesn’t work-at least not long term. You can exercise someone to death and take away most of their food and they are sure to lose weight, but when they go home, most of them gain it back! You’re hungry, you’re hurting and then you come home; what are you going to do? You are going to do that which gives you pleasure, which is eating. So how do we get a fat person to exercise? Do we throw cake outside and see if they will run to it? (Actually, I would have gone for that when I was fat…truth be told, I would do that now…) No, I think the way to get a fat person to exercise is to do something they like, or they are able to make a habit of it. I HATED exercise. absolutely abhorred it. I felt like it was a punishment even when I was in 6th grade and playing softball. I was that kid that sat down in the outfield praying a ball wouldn’t come my way—that was the extent of my sports ability. Fat people may need to power through the pain for a while and make it a habit, because it DOES hurt so much. I know you were thinking I was going to be coming up with some innovative idea that was going to change the world by bringing exercise to fat people—but really, this is the part that people want to do least when your fat. It hurts, and no one likes pain (unless you’re into that stuff- I am not judging).

Eating right: How do you get a fat person to eat right? Starve them, feed them 800 calories and trick them into thinking that it is ok to starve? I mean, they have plenty of fat reserves, right? Really?? No one can stay on an 800 calorie diet—Um, last I checked, that is called the STARVATION diet. That is like throwing a piece of meat into a lion’s den after he hasn’t eaten in forever and see if he saves some for the family…. I am thinking he is going to devour it. Well,  

once you go off that 800 calorie diet (during which you didn’t even lose weight, because you were in starvation mode), you ate a million things and gained even more weight. No, the way to eat right is…wait for it…. eat right! Eat a LOT of food that is healthy. Whaaattt?? Nothing innovative here, either. However, there is a bit of a caveat here, too. I guess I am old school. I think you should be able to eat what you want, as long as you are getting plenty of protein and fats. No, I don’t think carbs are of the devil, however, carbs make you crave more-or at least that is my experience. I have been vegan, vegetarian, raw foods, keto and paleo all within the time span of 6 years. I found as a vegan, vegetarian and raw food person, my blood sugar was up and down, and would cry and act like a total imbecile when I didn’t eat every 2 hours. That is just me. You HAVE to eat the way that you can sustain weight loss and also have a life. As a fat  

person, I had to go through every diet imaginable to find what works for me. I am a binger, so taking out all sugar and fake sugar and increasing my fats and proteins is the combo for me. If you are fat and say I am crazy, (you may be right, by the way) you have a different body than me and what works for one, does not work for another. HOWEVER—starving yourself DOES NOT work. It just packs on the pounds. There is no combination that works for all. I wish wish  

wish there was. Anyone who says they have all the answers is a liar—don’t fall for the quick fix BS. It is work. I dare someone who has been thin all their life to be on a specified “diet” for years—It takes dedication to eat right. I hate the stupid saying “eat less, move more”. Do you really think that every fat person that you come in contact with hasn’t tried that before? To be honest, that is insulting. If you think that our country does not market to fat people with commercials of food and sugary treats, you are crazy. Holy cow, just look at the rise in obesity rates…. but that rant will be saved for another day.

So in short, be kind. Be good to others. See that our differences are not all that different. Everyone has insecurities-fat OR thin. Don’t make fun of fat people. Try to understand one another. If you are a fat person reading this, there IS hope. You CAN lose weight. Is it easy? HELL NO it is not, but neither is being fat, so either way you have to swim uphill. Will you swim uphill feeling insecure and demeaned by others or swim uphill and control your life circumstances and become healthier? Notice I did not say skinny. I want you to take control of your life and emotions and think about making each day better, not what you hate about yourself, not about negative self-talk. No, the only way you become free is by changing your head—once you do that, then exercise and eating better will come little by little. Don’t be a victim, become victorious!
