---
layout: default
title: Recipes
display-title: false
permalink: recipes
comments: false
comments-locked: false
left-aside: true
right-aside-top: true
right-aside-bottom: true
---
A Foodies Guide to Whole30

I love food. Really. But not in a stuff-your- face kind of way, it’s definitely quality over quantity. I love

to enjoy well thought out and well prepared food. I’m pretty sure that I have a degree in cookery

from all the hours of Food Network I have logged, back before they were all game shows and

showdowns. (Emeril 5 times a day anyone?). It’s my artistic outlet I suppose.

When I looked at Whole30, I knew it would be a challenge. How in the world would I eliminate

practically everything but the basics and survive? In the eat-to- live or live-to- eat world, I am

definitely the latter. I couldn’t imagine NOT enjoying my daily sustenance for 30 whole days. What

kind of life is that? Not one I was interested in, that’s for sure.

But I also was curious how my body would respond to such an experiment. So I had a choice…give

up all enjoyment of one of my favorite things in life or approach it from a “crack the code” mindset.

Again, the latter prevailed. I printed off do’s and don’ts lists, hung them on my fridge and got down

to business. I was going to do this thing AND still enjoy my life…which involves enjoying my meals.

The first thing I tackled was breakfast.

I have always eaten breakfast. If I drink coffee and follow it up with a donut or nothing, I’m going to

be a jittery mess inside of 10 minutes. Breakfast has always been the thing that gets me up and

running. So I started here, with the most important meal of the day. Checking the list I discovered

that potatoes are actually allowed. Sweet potatoes, yams and now even white potatoes are fully

compliant. AWESOME. I can totally work with that!

Here are a few recipes developed for the breakfast lover in all of us:

Batch Baked Potatoes

Turn on your oven to 350. Wash and dry an assortment of white and sweet potatoes that are

relatively the same size and shape. Place them in the oven (right on the rack is fine) and let them

bake for 45 minutes or so. When a knife can be inserted without resistance, they are done. You are

now ready for a weeks worth of quick and easy breakfasts.

Sweet Potato Porridge

Heat 1 cup of unsweetened almond milk in a medium sized pot. While it is heating, split a baked

sweet potato in half and scoop out the meat (or is it flesh?) and discard the skins. Add the sweet

potato (about 1 to 1 ½ cups) to the heated milk and use a potato masher to combine. Thin with

additional milk if needed to create a creamy consistency. Mix in 2 tablespoons of almond butter and

blend well. Serve in a bowl and garnish with cinnamon and diced apple if desired.

Avocado Toast

Take 1 white baked potato and slice lengthwise into oval shaped disks, about ¼ inch thick, sprinkle

one side with salt and pepper. Heat 1 teaspoon of ghee and 1 teaspoon olive oil in a nonstick skillet.

When the ghee and oil begin to ripple on the surface, place the potato slices seasoned side down

into the pan. Season the other side.. Cook 3-5 minutes over medium-high heat, until golden brown

and crispy and then carefully flip to cook the other side. Meanwhile, mash a ripe avocado in a bowl

with salt and pepper. Serve on a plate by spreading crispy potato slices with mashed avocado. Top

with a slice of prosciutto if desired.



Fritatta

Turn oven broiler onto high. Heat a 10” skillet over medium heat and add 1 teaspoon each ghee and

olive oil. Add ¼ diced onion and cook for 2-3 minutes, until soft. Dice a cooked potato, sweet or

white, and add to heated pan. Season with salt and pepper. (If you have any left over veggies

around, feel free to dice those up and add them with the potatoes). Meanwhile, crack 4 eggs in a

bowl, season with salt and pepper and blend well with a fork or whisk. Pour the eggs over the

potato/veggie mixture and let cook for 1-2 minutes. Open the oven door and place the entire pan

into the oven, under the broiler and allow to cook for an additional 4-5 minutes, until the top is set

and slightly puffed. Carefully remove the pan from the oven and cut fritatta into wedges. Garnish

with avocado slices if desired.



Eggs and Taters

Heat 1 tsp of ghee and 1 tsp of olive oil over medium high heat in a nonstick skillet. Meanwhile, cut a

whole baked potato lengthwise and use a box grater to shred. Spread out the shredded potato and

season with salt and pepper. When the oil is rippling in the pan, add the potatoes and gently spread

to form an even layer. Cook for 3-5 minutes until the edges are golden brown and then drizzle with

additional olive oil. Using a spatula, divide the potatoes in the pan into 4 equal sections and flip over

each section to cook the other side. Give the pan a little shake if you like to spread the potatoes

evenly. Cook for an additional 3-5 minutes. Remove to a plate and keep warm.

In the same pan you cooked the potatoes, add a splash of oil and crack in 2 eggs. Cook until the eggs

can be lifted and flipped, about 2 minutes. Flip and finish to desired level (over easy, over medium

or over hard). Serve with taters.
